So now that we finished that setup, now that we're able to talk to Firebase and we saw that real time
data in action, let's utilize what we learned to not set up this weird listener when we click the add
button, but to instead output our messages here with help of the list view builder.
And that will be super, super easy.
Snapshots gives us a stream, as I mentioned, and a stream is simply a dart object which emits a new
value whenever some data source changes, whenever a data source gives us a new value in the end.
Now that entire stream thing is set up and managed automatically by firebase by that fire store package,
by the Cloud Fire Store package we added.
So that's very convenient.
We don't need to do anything there.
Even better than that.
Flutter has a nice little widget which we can utilize, and that's the stream builder widget here in
the body.
Instead of directly outputting the list you I will output a stream builder widget.
Now again, this comes with Flutter.
It's not part of Firebase and you don't have to add it on your own.
It comes with Flutter to stream builder widget takes two key arguments here on its constructor, a stream
named argument and a builder named argument.
The stream argument, as the name suggests, wants a stream.
So we can grab this code here all the way up to snapshots, including snapshots, but excluding the
listing call, because that listening will be handled by flutter with the stream builder.
So we take that code and cut it from down there and add this as a value for stream.
Now.
The builder then wants a function which takes to build context and which gets that latest snapshot we
get from the stream.
So that latest data snapshot we get from the stream.
So here we have a function that gets the context and this stream snapshot.
And we get a new snapshot whenever the stream changes.
So this builder function is re executed whenever the stream gives us a new value, whenever we get a
new value, this function is re executed and therefore I'll put my list view builder inside of this
function so that the list view is regenerated when I get a new value.
Now with regenerated, I still mean that flutter will not go ahead and update the entire UI.
I just mean that flutter will go ahead and reevaluate the UI and check if something needs to update
there.
So this will be very efficient.
So let's grab this list view builder and return it here inside of this builder function like that.
Now here.
Let's actually close it like this here.
So add this extra parenthesis here, remove it there, however.
And we can also get rid of that code down there and get rid of these two closing parentheses here and
of the semicolon.
Use a comma instead also here and save everything and reformat.
And you should have this code.
So essentially we now add the stream builder connected it to our stream and to find which function should
run whenever this stream gives us a new value.
Now here Streams Snapshot will be our object to get access to that received data and we can now replace
the hardcoded item count here with stream snapshot data, which gives us access to the concrete data
we got from the stream.
Dot documents, dot length.
The data field will have some documents because the data we're working with is our collection.
So we'll have documents and those documents will have a certain length.
And now it is will render as many this works texts as we have documents.
So if we save this now, we see an error down there but nonetheless you see to this works items here
which makes sense because we got two messages now we get an error because that data isn't there right
from the start.
Initially, when the request is sent behind the scenes at the data as received, no data is there.
So actually here we should check on the stream snapshot if our connection state is equal to connection
state waiting.
And Connection State is an object that also comes with Flutter and it has this waiting property or to
be precise, it's a enum, but it has this weighting value which basically tells us that currently we're
still waiting for some data here and we could return a center widget with, let's say, a circular progress
indicator.
Here to show this, whilst we're waiting for data now, we don't get an error.
If we reload this application, we won't really see the indicator because it loads super fast.
But now we do handle that millisecond where no data is there as well.
Now, besides outputting this works, it would of course, be nicer to output the actual data we have
here.
We can get access to that.
Here.
We know how to get access to all documents.
So we'll actually grab that and store that in a new variable here documents.
So that's the documents I get from my stream snapshot and I can use that here.
But I can also use it here to get the actual data that's in that document.
We can access documents for the given index.
Index is provided here by the item builder and then access the text field to get access to the text
that's stored inside of a message.
And if we do that and save that, and you now see the real messages being output here, and that's,
of course, pretty, pretty nice because this now shows us the data we have here on the back end in
our Firebase app.
Let's next see how we can add a new entry, a new document by clicking the plus button.